doi://10.26678/ABCM.CONEM2024.CON24-0660

Modeling and simulation of a omnidirectional multirotor UAV

Submission Author: Fabio Pinheiro Cardoso , RJ , Brazil
Co-Authors: João Carlos Virgolino Soares, Marco Antonio Meggiolaro
Presenter: Fabio Pinheiro Cardoso


Abstract
Multirotor vehicles are broadly used in robotics applications for their low cost, maneuverability, and speed. 
However, the inability of traditional multirotors to generate thrust and torque independently of each other, and in any direction, has two main consequences. 
First, the set of viable maneuvers for these Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) is severely limited because of the coupling of both position and attitude. 
Second, the UAVs are unable to withstand arbitrary force and torque disturbances without substantial delay. 
This is due to the time required to reorient the direction of fixed thrust in the UAV chassis, which degrades the performance of UAVs in scenarios that demand high-precision flight and in scenarios 
where major external disturbances are found. For instance, in the applications of interaction aerial physics, in activities such as grabbing and manipulating objects or human interaction. 

This work addresses the modeling and simulations of an omnidirectional multirotor, which purpose is to overcome the traditional multirotors limitations, i.e., a UAV system capable of independently 
controlling its thrusts and torques in all degrees of freedom. This configuration has the potential to perform unusual maneuvers for conventional configurations (underactuated) since they can be 
overactuated or fully actuated depending on the number of installed motor propellers. The analyses, simulations, and preliminary results of the project and development of the aerial system are 
presented, highlighting some requirements, scope, and restrictions. The UAV modeling is idealized with eight motors, an velocities feedback, and a inputs from forces and torques. 
The typical configurations of conventional multirotor UAVs normally have their motors allocated on the same plane and with their rotation axes parallel to each other. 
However, the proposal discussed in this work is designed to have its motor-propeller sets configured with eight motors located on the faces of a circumscribed octahedron, and supported by eight 
beams connected to a core, which can contain all the electronics necessary for its operation. This configuration can enhances the available torque and forces, being able to provide behaviors that are 
unattainable in common multirotors.

Keywords
omnidirectional, UAV, multirotor aerial vehicle, Simulation, modeling